people who knew me and people who do you
like you both like science it's true in
fact you both like nails and join me
nails but wait you two should meet
so hi everyone welcome back to my
channel you probably all know who I am
by now but you're probably wondering who
this lovely lady sat next to me I'm
Michaela Winston banks and I am your
friend and hopefully not foe when it
comes to science and nail art I guess
we'll see you on my nail art friends I
am your nail art friend yes and you also
have a PhD you are a scientist
yes so my PhD is in molecular biology so
it's really tiny tiny biology things are
happening inside the cell yeah so what
kind of the opposite end of the science
spectrum right like how older incredibly
tiny yeah and I am the universe I am
huge
I like how together we kind of cover all
the scales of the universe yeah Thorin's
of it yeah so basically with our love of
painting nails and nail art and nail art
on YouTube we figured why not film a
video where we sit down paint nails chat
science my favorite yeah obviously
okay look and then you guys could join
in to chat too because I think makanda
is a lot better at Neela and I do it a
while for fun while I pick nail polishes
while I decide what color most resembles
molecular biology why don't you tell the
world excellent choice I care about you
from Buddhism and why don't you sort of
tell is like what your PhD was on and
what your research yes
so some moons ago I used to investigate
cancer testes antigens basically it's a
group of proteins that you either only
find in the testes or in cancer tissues
kind of anywhere in the body and that's
because the production of sperm has a
lot in common with the progression of
cancer how it develops how its
it's like all good researchers looking
at a very tiny part of that and one
protein and I was looking at how this
one particular protein was or was not
involved in getting messages from the
nucleus where the genes where your DNA
is yeah out to the rest of the cell so
it could be made into a protein these
proteins that do the functioning and
DNA's like the template for that protein
so were you trying to like isolate the
proteins that it could be like
synthetically made with something we
made it in bacterial cells we got out of
human tissue culture yeah but basically
yeah we were trying to get that protein
and then do certain experiments with
only that protein to see what would
happen right so we we had experiments
where you know things would go up or
down if it was involved in export
basically export of the the DNA messages
out into the okay the rest of the cell
to be made into a protein so we referred
to these things as licensing factors you
can think of them like a passport yeah
so it only allows certain messages to
get out because there's there's a whole
process obviously it's very calculated
but basically there's a whole bunch of
proteins involved with carrying these
messages through a core in the nuclear
membrane and it's not passive so it's
not like anything can get through they
have to be allowed through and so the
protein I was looking at we hypothesized
was one of those kind of Passport
licensing factors that would let certain
things out okay I'm still confused how
this ties in with Katherine so
replication or cell death or whether a
cell goes hey I'm gonna try and get out
of this tissue and move elsewhere so
metastasis in cancers when it spreads
all of these things are basically
controlled by whether or not certain
genes are on or off and so if a gene
message can't get out of the nucleus
it's off right whereas if it can it's on
so
the idea is that this passport was
allowing messages for essentially bad
genes to be switched on and so it could
be saying hey you should now replicate
crazily and cause a tumor right
basically okay but particularly you're
focused on testicular cancer No so so it
was so it's normally only found in the
testes so under normal conditions you
you would only find it in at-st okay if
you found it in any other tissue it
could be breast colon skin whatever then
then it was a cancerous tissue right
yeah so the only time we found it not in
the testes was in a cancerous tissue
right it was found in I think it was
something like 15 to 20 percent of all
different types of cancer but but the
idea was that if it did something like
that just but the hope is if it if it
was sort of involved in that sort of
process then if you tried to target that
protein with a drug say to just turn it
off or get rid of it then it would stop
that cancerous procede right so and the
thing is for women that's fine if you
but we didn't know what it was normally
involved in when it wasn't in cancer
right we should do top coat like yes yes
a sequence there do you know maybe
looking for particular markers and you'd
be able to say is this aloes p4 positive
oh right so that's great most painful
Rosie and I worked only seems
appropriate for is a very exciting name
but yeah you'd be able to say is this a
ELO's p4 positive cancer and therefore
should we target that or is it something
else positive should we M I don't know
how much top coat takes a driver I'm
excited to see what you want like nail
something think so I've never used these
things before okay yeah I'm like um like
elements in the periodic table they've
got like the flammable little symbols
and like the radioactive symbols what
also like
some pills
I love you said loves peaceful us before
it just helped me to spell it so I think
I'm gonna go for some pills and the cute
little DNA molecule shot DNA isn't
strictly accurate no well so we all know
DNA is like a twisted ladder right but
ley double helix please disrobe
that's one strand of DNA so what I mean
is it looks like that and what they've
done is I can't evoke from now yeah
happened done and so what they've done I
can't even do it because it's like so
they've had everybody broad well and it
and it crosses equally so you see here
that is a minor grave right and that is
a major groove so that is a small bit
and that is a large bit no I don't get
it
so here see that both of these are the
same size I said I need to do even
bigger the same size on that one oh I
see so this this indents bigger and this
indent is not staying right I just
thought that wait no no that that's what
looks and the other thing is it has to
twist the right way because there's the
thing called chirality just the
handedness of that like currently seeds
exist
yeah likes to say molecule but they're
like reflected yeah yeah so the right
way is clockwise so it kind of turns
like that so it's like the whole helix
not your lines clockwise right okay
exactly it has no handedness really by
Taylor I don't one with a stamp in play
yeah and I'll do one free hands okay
scrape scrape scrape yeah just one good
time will do it yeah
and that should do it and I think you're
wrong yeah roll it on gotta see my first
ever star do I roll it onto the nail -
aye it's quite soft so you can push it
okay so just so exciting happy excited
judging vicariously I don't know hard to
push that's it that's fine oh yeah the
chirality of DNA let's talk about that
because as as fun as people think nail
polish is I'm sure more people want to
hear about choice i and how cool it is
listen if DNA is the left-handed
molecule mm-hmm kerosene it's like what
is the right-hand molecule that looks
like DNA but it's still DNA I think they
refer to them as like DNA in DNA B I
think is but I think one is biologically
relevant because it's you know the
version we actually get yeah and the
other is not it smells like esters Thank
You Camus tree I don't think it'll kill
you I hope they wouldn't sell it but you
know there could be like a mirror image
earth or universe out there somewhere
perhaps where just because on our planet
everything appears to mostly be the kind
of left-handed version yeah tell me we
had carbon-based the best silicon based
maybe the DNA is the right-handed yeah
you know DNA strand yeah yeah yeah look
at my dream that's good look at that see
and that beautiful it's not looking
anything like a pokeball I might make it
into a pod but you know sometimes people
do these projects where it's like the
genetics of superheroes or something if
someone don't like because I've seen
people do like evolution and Pokemon
right I wonder if someone specifically
like looked into the genetics of Pokemon
I would watch that if they have please
tell in the comments if someone has done
the genetics of Pokemon maybe you've
done the genetics of coke or like the
evolutionary biology of Pokemon whether
we could go from current species on
planet earth and somehow get to an
electric Mouse I'm now going to attempt
to freehand a DNA molecule so I want to
make sure that I get these like like big
major troughs and minor truck
trunk line of trucks that's not what
they called it right dips let's go with
that so I need to basically draw in my
head I'm drawing a sine curve and then I
slightly out of phase so slightly yes
but not completely
don't tell me see baffles about DNA
while I draw it it's super small unlike
this oh no you just have a really that
legally yeah that is now right there you
look at that right now I got one strand
you telling me I have to now do it out
of this I go yes
do I have to enjoin them up with them I
mean you could do the little rungs of a
ladder thing yes dude why those like
this what is it is it it's the name of
the chemicals a is Ranas een finding
grandmas in cytosine yeah ATG NC ET GC
and a always pairs with T and G always
pairs with C that looks like it's got me
major mining I think this here is
looking pretty good
it's not that one there and this
question is great and then it goes a
little bit like that
well that one at the end is okay but
then that one in the middle is hungry I
don't think but it's it's pretty good I
think I did better than Anil something
for you I'm not too - you did 50% better
than yeah should I try and join them
with yes how many do I put the cosine
curve I think there's no that there is
an actual number you should have told me
I needed a bone up I think there's like
to point something base pairs per turn
maybe time to like that so yeah because
so this was so long ago for you because
you don't do this anymore I mean you
don't do research would you like to tell
the people what you do I help
researchers engage with the public and I
do that across the what's called the
mass physical and life sciences division
at the University of Oxford so I
actually get to hear about things in
physics engineering computer science
well
Plant Sciences stats like so much stuff
sorry if I miss do well industry oh
that's a free ride done any pre Hyundai
lot oh yeah oh if you get a holy top car
well everybody loves sparkly hello
DNA strands right exactly if it like
glamorous DNA yeah can you probably see
something if you ever like get back into
research and you start designing the
form in which people would take you lose
Paul oh yeah yeah those people then can
you design it in a strange pokeball yeah
yeah just like this I'll go with extra
like edible glitter I'll do my best
is anybody watching who works in the you
know treatment of cancer via oral
medication please can you design some
pills but above all she picked for our
joy our joy in did I mean on the drive
patients I'd never throw them out Maria
Condor would be like does that bring you
joy maybe like yes yes yes we should
know okay well so galaxy so obviously
space right so it's gonna have a black
background yeah but what would make
galaxies kind of identifiable what
different shapes do they come in and not
come in and like how how can I best do
this for you okay oh it's funny just
because it's not actually like an agreed
on definition in the field what a galaxy
is Siri yes not just like a massive
collection of stars that's basically the
closest we've got right is it's pretty
difficult to define cause of such stars
there's gas dust dark matter as a black
ball in the middle right it's where I
was thinking when you picked black right
letting you light your space is black
right isn't it well yeah well that's the
thing but the like someone once asked
and it was like called a paradox for a
while but it was one of those paradoxes
it's just cuz we didn't have the
knowledge to understand why yes he's
called Olbers paradox right like he
asked why space dark
yeah right because if space is infinite
then every line of sites like every
single point that you look at in the sky
eventually you should like hair stop
yeah eventually you'll happen on the
galaxy where I start off something that
has light and it's weird therefore that
the sky is dark because if the stars
everywhere because the universe is
infinite then it should be light then
obviously we learnt that the universe
isn't infinite so space is glass because
the universe is by that messier h74
biggest gaps are one of the bay scallops
yeah and it's got this massive big jet
every mission coming on in the black
hole so it's like a big yellow blob and
then this big like bluey people like one
jet it's like bigger to be Garcia elf
its man the black hole is it where is it
globular yeah drop for me so it was a
lot of images it's just like blob of a
galaxy mm-hmm right and then it's just
like yeah just one jet yeah like a
Geoff's all like okay and then this bit
you said was like yellow yellow yeah
like yellowy and just glowy aha around
this bit is blooming bluey purple blue
and purple right I'm like you know like
a spiral galaxy maybe like this like Bob
spire yeah and then the Whirlpool is
like proper like you know so long like
extra arms coming out okay well I'll
start with this one
m87 is really really old hmm and it's
sort of like not only for me any stars
anymore right it's full of a lot of
older smaller stars
which is sort of at the end of their
lives but we'll just sort of continue
burning because basically the bigger the
you are as a star the quicker you're
going to use all your hydrogen feel it's
like live fast die young stars like Kurt
Cobain's exactly also it's like the
center of like a local group of galaxies
that ribbon so lose later the Milky Way
right it's like how a galaxy big spiral
galaxy and then there's Andromeda is
like nearby us and folks in the southern
hemisphere as well maybe and hey howdy
today sorry one
sometimes so you'll see like there's the
small lifeline cloud at the Large
Magellanic Cloud as well
yep me too late little dwarf galaxies in
this way and then that's like one group
of galaxies it was at the local group
but then that group of galaxies is in
like a cluster of groups and the very
center of all of those things in like
the gravitational driving seat of the
center of all the galaxies is MH 7 this
is like one of the biggest and so
yellowy orange you say for the the Bulge
abit hmm okay right yeah all right
that's brilliant I got t schip M&S once
that had like actual space images on it
like it wasn't like so happy and I tried
to put it through this software that
astronomers use that like yeah that can
tell you where in the night sky you are
always aligning all the stars that's
cool yeah because I basically what it
does is it draws triangles between all
the stars and then try to work out loan
which triangles then that matches up
with yeah and it was to be able to do it
but I think it was like this Dorothy
like a teacher and like it had been a
real date but they let stretched it a
bit or something
yeah like the dimensions application oh
my but at least they like use the real
thing in the first place that's pretty
awesome you know that that's a fire so
now hold astrometric net if any one kind
of like I just thought they'd want to
play a promise but that same software
like that algorithm is now used by
marine biologists to identify whale
sharks Wow yeah that's cool is cool is
like in the water like in towards it
when you see the many videos it's
apparently whale sharks I mean I'm not
an expert but apparently whale sharks
like they have those dots on them like
that like okay so identify the
individuals oh cool white dots on them
in apparently though the white dot
pattern is like individual tip to the
each whale shark
and so like you can use that identifying
and like track them without putting any
like tracking that's pretty awesome
should I give an attempt at the world
tool so can I draw it like that okay
it also technically has a little
companion as well that's like a blob
over here okay
you be like it I thought afraid see this
is why I have like Medusa v'k lolz just
been through so much but I did be here
on it I think the main thing when you're
doing this is knowing when to stop yeah
just like how the arm stops on the edge
now does this thing need to be a colour
is it blue because like were little
Louie Louie
pinky so it's relatively like the pinky
areas a hydrogen and then just in the
galaxy that's like make dust lanes mmm
on the ice easel
but there's also lots of star clusters
in the world food galaxies as well so
like big so starbursting regions where
there's like lots of stars for think in
a very concentrated area and like when
you see those you can always see the
individual like massive stars have been
formed mmm and obviously like pink is
reason it's pink is because hydrogen
sort of glows the pink and hydrogen is
great because hydrogen is like what you
need to make new stars yeah staff you
can I am a stem people oh yeah Oh what
would you know yeah is there's something
hidden behind that I can't see on the
other side so let's say it's brilliant
because I'm okay I really am but it's
got through yeah do you want pink yes so
hand me oh yeah I'm imagining this is
like the early big back and all that
there is the universe hydrogen lots of
beauty I'm a tiny trace Mountains with
you but really it here is the trace
amount and brilliant like most of the
stars are in the spiral arms well so
that's where what is known is no stars
in between spiral arms because like we
don't actually know we don't have a
accepted theory yet for like how spiral
arms fall right they actually are yeah
there's a couple of different like ones
whether it could be so we're the most
popular is like it's like a density wave
right so you can
like a flat disk of stars and there's
just sort of like a wave of density like
moving through the disk but like pushes
all the stars together to make it look
like as a concentration you know like a
Mexican wave yeah right it's like not an
actual no all right okay yeah because
it's people moving in music but moving
up and down but yeah see is something
moving around the stadium right yeah
there's nothing actually physically
moving around the stadium because all
people are doing is standing up like
moving up and down in sequence that you
can imagine it like that the spiral arms
are just the points where people are
stood up I feel like this looks like
some sort of superhero logo beside with
you you reminds me of something
if you can think what not superhero logo
is down in the comments please let me
know all right let's get me from stars
I'm just rounding let it sound effects
like the creation of a star I've managed
to light my hair as well I said when you
think about a star and people see lots
of images of stars they're obviously not
round and they're not like you know a
five-pointed star shape either they're
they have like these what we call a
diffraction spike right yeah so there's
like a line like going in across
basically through the center of the star
and that's basically when the star is so
bright that there's so much light coming
from that star that it's hit the
detector and it's hit like a couple of
pixels on the detector and that pixel is
like completely full with light very
very yeah like bleed over into
neighboring pixels and so despite the
fact that it looks incredibly pretty
when you have these like subtly would
worry about it really like diffraction
spikes on the camera like that's what it
is basically said overexposure and
people tend to try and avoid that as
much as they can like when you're using
a telescope you try and pick the
exposure time to be appropriate for what
you're viewing it wouldn't be galaxy
nails without it low so you because when
you observe galaxies that's awesome
look at the diffraction spike on the
stuff like when you observe a galaxy
though say I'm observing an 87 but
there's a star in the foreground like
that star will be much brighter than the
background galaxy which is projected so
even if you picture exposure so that you
get enough light to be able to see the
galaxy you're always going to overexpose
the star in the foreground so you can do
big departures by look here this can be
storing I love a lovely things up here
its own dark house actually start I've
been talking for I think we started
listing tellers you'd be doing about
hour and a half
whoa we should talk about the science of
holo next I mean it's not that difficult
we should talk about it next time or
what about the people in physics what do
the quantum rainbows yeah we should get
little because it's not strictly Hollow
but and in that light is life there we
go so is that is that a pleasingly
vaguely accurate galaxy now it is yeah
we've got what we've got m87 with its
jet over here just beautiful we have the
Whirlpool Galaxy complete with companion
we have random barred galaxies that also
kind of looks like a superhero logo
tells what and then we have a little bit
of beryllium which is why not so we have
DNA yep a Les Paul pills DNA whoa
amazing yeah like if we get guests on
we're gonna do a guests handy charming
yes scientist and then we'll get them to
pick which one their favourite if you'll
do one hand other than that competition
but this time there's no guests so I
think we should ask people to go which
is your favourite is it the the DNA and
pill nails that I did or is it the
galaxy nails that Michaela dudes this is
the very first nailing science and we
hope you enjoyed it and we'll be back in
a couple weeks hopefully interviewing
another scientist while we yeah high
five I close by from our nails
[Laughter]
[Music]
I'm gonna get this one Lauren I denied
both so that could be a citizen science
project ladies our galaxy what did I say
in science he's so obsessed with
archiving right and making sure that no
data is lost no like writing is lost or
anything like that you know we should
start the scientists for archiving the
hell up okay don't sound thrilled you
don't need what I always wonder is what
other knowledge could I hold in my head
if it wasn't for all the song lyrics on
it yeah so if you got rid of like
backstreet's back you could have well no
that's that's important very important
you